we all know for tonight is the most
popular game of all time in almost every
category including players viewers
stream watch time and even video uploads
to youtube but how did that all happen
I'll explain it this is the diagram and
I'm Travis cafard fortnight was
announced in 2011 at the Spike Video
Game Awards apparently just three weeks
after the developers came up with the
idea for the game originally the game
was supposed to release in 2013 but
between its announcement release date it
encountered a few speed bumps epic
switched its engine from Unreal 3 to
four changed the game model to
free-to-play and was partially acquired
by $0.10 a massive games company that
focuses on making games as a service
making money from micro transactions and
building its videogame monopoly also
maybe most importantly many of their
high-level steps left the company
including the design director Cliff
Bleszinski the fortnight alpha was very
much like it is today with the exception
that the fortnight you play is a
different game entirely the original
which is still playable as he saved the
world mode is part survival shooter of
heart tower defense Tim Sweeney epics
founder described at the time as
minecraft meets left 4 dead upon release
it was apparent that the game wasn't
doing well so the devs came up with a
new idea
the popular battle royale mode that the
game is known for was not conceived
until two months before the game was
released nearly six years after
development started after seeing a
success of the player unknown
battleground beta the fortnight
development team changed gears to create
their own battle royale mode which
released after just two months of
development by February of 2018 it's
estimated that for tonight battle royale
had already surpassed player Unknown
battlegrounds revenue for the same
period by around 20%
the following month Tyler ninja Blevins
streamed the game with several
celebrities including Drake Travis Scott
Kim calm and Pittsburgh Steeler juju
Smith Schuster that month fortnight
revenue almost doubled from the previous
month since then the game's popularity
has continued to rise exponentially
let's look at the numbers two weeks
after launch fortnight Battle Royale had
10 million players in six months they
had 45 million and now in June 2018 14
has acquired over 125 million players
with 40 million of those being active
monthly players to put that into
perspective blizzards extremely popular
shooter overwatch has only gotten 40
million players total since its release
in May of 2016 and 2014 League of Legend
had 27 million active daily players
elavil has far less players now but port
9 has some catching up to do to beat all
the records for tonight has the most
youtube uploads for game in a single
month beating even minecraft which has
held the record since 2013 in May 2018
for denied earned the most hours blocks
of any single game on twitch with 4.3
million average daily hours watched the
previous game holding that record was
League of Legends from October of 2016
with 3 point 3 5 million average daily
hours viewed in part because of the
World Championships it has set a record
for biggest single live gaming streaming
at 1.1 million concurrent for 42 million
total live views how does this stack up
against traditional sports viewing time
well for tonight was viewed on Twitch
for a total of a hundred and thirty
three million hours or fifteen thousand
two hundred years in May that's about 45
percent of watch time of the five games
of the 2017 NBA Finals or a third of
Super Bowl 50 - there's no single
concrete reason as to why the game
exploded in popularity the way it did
but here are a few things that
definitely helped explain why 4/9 beats
its nearest competitor so soundly it was
the first big battle royale game to
console market beating pub G thereby for
months as for tonight was released on
Xbox ps4 and PC in September while pub G
released in December it's a free to play
title compared to the $30 price point of
pub G which included microtransactions
in the form of loot boxes anyway the
game has less bugs than its competitors
and this may be in part due to epic
being the developer of the Unreal Engine
which is the physics coding the game
runs on Unreal Engine by the way also
happens to be what pub G has been
developed on the game also had
significant time and development under a
large team for tonight was developed in
production for six years compared to pub
G single year before release and pub G's
initial development team was 35 people
compared to the 94 night deaths you've
been working on the game since 2014 it's
pretty clear why the game has less
issues for tonight also includes
nostalgia references and general
silliness that was made from and for
memes
the real-life dances though modest to
everything from Batman to Cadillac Ranch
and weapons such as the disco ball have
removed some of the rough edges from
what was previously an intimidating game
type you can't talk about fortnight
without discussing ninja for a bit
Tyler Blevins aka ninjas a streamer who
counts for
once a quarter of the total fortnight
viewing time he's been playing that game
since 2017 when other big streamers were
basically altogether ignoring the game
and he has a 100 million more hours
viewed per month than his nearest
competitor and earns at least $500,000 a
month
ninja grew his YouTube channel from 1
million subs to 10 million in under a
hundred days making him the fastest non
music content creator to do that many
people credit his popularity with Ryze
and for tonight's popularity but Tyler
he credits for tonight's free-to-play
model when taking all this into account
it seems like poor tonight became what
it is today through a series of
extremely fortunate events and while
that may be true its growth has been
organic epic is listen to what players
wanted and made great decisions this is
the diagram and I'm Travis gaffer